Researchers routinely seek to increase their workflow productivity to shorten the timescale for discovery. I should know: I spent over 3 decades of my career in experimental physics, studying fusion energy, plasma physics, and technology.

It started with a Ph.D. in physics, from the University of California, Irvine,  studying methods to inject, intense-pulsed-ion beams into a fusion reactor.  After graduating I worked on ion-space propulsion at the Hughes Research Laboratories, followed by my first startup, MicroBeam, Inc.,  developing focused-ion beams for microelectronics.

I returned to physics research developing  methods to compress magnetic flux in a Z-pinch, x-ray lithography, and of course, beam propagation, which led me back to UC Irvine. In 2001 my previous advisor and others co-founded, Tri Alpha Energy, Inc., which seeks to develop fusion energy in a a magnetic field-reversed configuration.

Nevertheless, Z-pinches were always an attractive option for me, providing extremes in the plasma-compressed-energy density and my research demonstrated a new method for nanosecond-scale delivery of energy to a fusion target. The result was many papers over many decades and two patents on the "Staged Z-pinch" (SZP), which became the basis for my third start-up: Magneto-Inertial Fusion Technologies, Inc. MIFTI continues to develop the SZP for fusion and medical isotopes.

Recently, I have settled back from the above engagements, focusing now on providing cost-effective solutions and diagnostics to researchers, which are compiled on this website. My supplier is Zeonics Systech, of India, founded in 1981, who is a leader in high-voltage, pulsed-power components, and systems. Their products perform at levels comparable to what is available in the USA, at substantially reduced cost. The Second-Harmonic Interferometer is also an instrument in high demand for measuring the plasma density in many experiments; it is our first, “home-grown” product.  Should you be interested in offering  diagnostic systems yourself, don't hesitate to reach out and maybe we can collaborate.

As always it will be my great pleasure to provide you with the highest level of support to facilitate your discoveries.

FJW